the problem statement is we will be given a back
that is a knapsack and its capacity
And then there will be n number of objects with
its weight and profit
Now our task is to fill the knapsack with the
given items such that the profit is maximum
Here the knapsack capacity is 30 kilograms but available
items weight will be 5 12 plus 20 plus 10
which is equal to 47 kilogrammes
So we need to pick the only 30 kilogrammes of
items from the available items with maximum profit
Since this problem requires maximum results from all feasible solutions
this is in optimisation problem and we can solve it
using the greedy method
So how can be solved that using the greedy method
shall we take items with the higher profit or
Shall we take more items with smaller weight for example
here the item C has the maximum profit that is
140 but it's for 20 kg per kilogramme
We will get 140 divided by 20 which is
equal to seven
But even though the item A has small profit it's
per kg value will be higher than the item
C that is if we picked the item A per
kg we will get 50 divided by five that is ten
But with item C we will get only seven
So what we can do is we can calculate the
per Kg profit that is profit divided by weight for
each item and then we can sort the items based
on profit versus weight ratio
After that we can start picking the item one by
one
So first pick all items of A it will occupy
five kilogrammes of the knapsack so the remaining capacity will
be 25
And for this we will get a profit of ₹50
Next pick all items of be and it will occupy
another 20 kg of the knapsack
So the remaining capacity will be five kg
For item B we will get a profit of rupees
So the total profit will be 50 place 140
that is 190 After this
The remaining capacity of knapsack is five kilogrammes
But the item C has 10 kg of items so
we can take only five kg of item
C For this we will get the profit 60 into
5 by 10
that is equal to 30
That is we are taking only five kg from a
total of 10 kg
So we are multiplying the total profit of 60 with five
by 10 now our knapsack is filled with 30
kilogramme of items and the total profit we will get
from this will be 220
Here we have picked the fractional part of the last
item to fill the knapsack
Hence this method is called the fractional knapsack problem
We have solve this fractional knapsack problem with a greedy
solution
Suppose if we say we cannot take the items in fractions
either we can take the item fully or leave it
That is as zero or one
Will that problem be solveable using the same greedy
approach Let us discuss it in the next video.